---
author:
  name: Pramana
title:  "Blog Post 02/05/22 - AIME Mock Reflections"
date:   2022-02-05 12:18:26 -0500
categories: [failing, succeeding, death]
tags: [hi]
permalink: /Feb5th/
math: true
---
## My First AIME Mocks!
I have been very inactive in this diary. I invested most of my time
in my notes on Real Analysis and Modern Algebra.
I'll try to publish them soon if I think they are up to standard.

I participated in two different mock AIMEs today, so it's safe
to say that my brain is pretty fried. I won't post any write-ups right now
because neither are finished, but I will link the contests.

The first one I did in the morning was the
[IMTC contest](https://imtcontest.org/).
15 questions with 3 hours. I answered 7 of them,
and guessed on 2 more. The first few were quite easy and caused my
confidence to go up until the last few questions, which killed me.

The second contest was the [TTLM contest](https://tothelimitmaths.org/), which I started in the evening. I was more relaxed doing this,
I did not even plan on using paper for anything other than the geo
problems, so I stuck to my whiteboard. I answered 6, and guessed on 1
more. Again, I started to get stuck on some problems. I will also note
that the time on this exam was 2 hours compared to the normal
time period of 3 hours. The questions however seemed easier,
so it seemed to balance out the difficulty of this exam.

## LaTeX to Markdown Test
> **Problem**
> How many positive integers $n \leq 242$ exist such that the remainders
> when $n$ is divided by $1, 2, 11, 22, 121$ and $242$, respectively, form
> a non-decreasing sequence?

Denote $n_k$ as taking $n \bmod{k}$. Our series becomes
$$0, n_2, n_{11}, n_{22}, n_{121}, n$$ We can simply compare consecutive
terms, and as long as the next one is greater than or equal to the
previous one, we are good.

It is easy to verify that $n_2 \geq 0, n_{22} \geq n_{11},$ and
$n_{121} \geq n$ are always true. That leaves us to find examples of
$n_{11}<n_2$ and $n_{121}<n_{22}$.

When $n=11$, $$n_2=1 > 0 = n_{11}.$$ Past this, $n_{11}$ continues to
increase, while $n_2$ stays at $0$ or $1$. Even at $n=22$,
$n_2 = 0 = 0 = n_{11}$. But when $n=33$, $n_2 = 1 > 0 = n_{11}$. We
conclude that when $n \equiv 11 \pmod{22}$, we have $n_{11}<n_2$. This
is also easy to verify.

For $n_{121}<n_{22}$, when $n<121$, $n_22$ remains small, while
$n_{121}$ continues to increase, so all of these numbers should be good.
When $n=121,$ we have $$n_{22} = 11 > 0 = n_{121}.$$ $n_{22}$ continues
to increase at the same pace of $n_{121}$ until $n=132$, where
$$n_{22} = 0 < 11 = n_{121}.$$ Past this, $n_{121}$ continues to
increase until $n=242$, which is where we would have stopped anyway.

| Condition             | Is false...            |
|:---------------------:|:----------------------:|
| $n_2 \geq 0$          | Never                  |
| $n_{11} \geq n_2$     | $n \equiv 11\bmod{22}$ |
| $n_{22} \geq n_{11}$  | Never                  |
| $n_{121} \geq n_{22}$ | $121 \leq n \leq 131$  |
| $n_{121} \geq n$      | Never                  |

There are $11$ $n$ that satisfy
$n \equiv 11\bmod{22}$, and $11$ $n$ that satisfy $121 \leq n \leq 131$.
However, don't forget PIE, the number $121$ is counted twice! Therefore
the $n$ that satisfy the conditions are
$$242 - (11 + 11 - 1) = \boxed{221}.$$
